content/portfolio/_index.md, before:

---
date: '2025-07-01T17:38:12+01:00'
draft: false
title: 'Portfolio'
description: "David Judge's portfolio"
categories: ["Products"]
tags: ["Products", "n8n", "GenAI", "Voice", "Receptionist"]
---


# This section holds a portfolio of my work. 
![alt text](/images/AutomationPageHeaderImage.jpg)

For the past few months I've been building some 
automations - some of the use AI but many don't - and I'm just super
passionate about automation. 

I have started a business called ObserveAutomation to provide automation/AI strategy and services to customers in the UK, helping people out with my automation/AI skills and systems.

I share here some of the work I've been doing with a focus on showing how it delivers value.  There are few slightly technical bits to show how the result were achieved.


Please reach out to me if:
* you have any questions, or 
* you would like a conversation about Automation and AI, or
* Would like help implementing automation/AI in your business.

Commit message:

Enriching image links with real tests

content/portfolio/_index.md, after:

---
date: '2025-07-01T17:38:12+01:00'
draft: false
title: 'Portfolio'
description: "David Judge's portfolio"
categories: ["Products"]
tags: ["Products", "n8n", "GenAI", "Voice", "Receptionist"]
---


# This section holds a portfolio of my work. 
![ObserveAutomation Header Image for the Portfolio section](/images/AutomationPageHeaderImage.jpg)

For the past few months I've been building some 
automations - some of the use AI but many don't - and I'm just super
passionate about automation. 

I have started a business called ObserveAutomation to provide automation/AI strategy and services to customers in the UK, helping people out with my automation/AI skills and systems.

I share here some of the work I've been doing with a focus on showing how it delivers value.  There are few slightly technical bits to show how the result were achieved.


Please reach out to me if:
* you have any questions, or 
* you would like a conversation about Automation and AI, or
* Would like help implementing automation/AI in your business.
